Add Segment API (#7768)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _api-reference/index-apis/segment.md

---
layout: default
title: Segment
parent: Index APIs

> nav_order: 66

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nav_order: 64
```

---

> # Segment API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Segment
```

Introduced 1.0
{: .label .label-purple }

> The Segment API returns information about Lucene segments inside of index shards and information about the backing indexes of data streams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Segment API provides details about the Lucene segments within index shards, as well as information about the backing indexes of data streams.

```

## Path and HTTP methods

```
GET /<index-name>/_segments
GET /_segments
```

## Path parameters

The following table lists the available path parameters. All path parameters are optional.

Parameter | Data type | Description 
:--- | :--- | :--- 
`<index>` | String | A comma-separated list of indexes, data streams, or index aliases to which the operation is applied. Supports wildcard expressions (`*`). Use `_all` or `*` to specify all indexes and data streams in a cluster. |

## Query parameters

The Segments API supports the following optional query parameters:

> Parameter | Type | Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameter | Data type | Description
```

:--- | :--- | :---
`allow_no_indices` | Boolean | Whether to ignore wildcards that don’t match any indexes. Default is `true`.
allow_partial_search_results | Boolean | Whether to return partial results if the request runs into an error or times out. Default is `true`.
`expand_wildcards` | String | Specifies the type of index that wildcard expressions can match. Supports comma-separated values. Valid values are `all` (match any index), `open` (match open, non-hidden indexes), `closed` (match closed, non-hidden indexes), `hidden` (match hidden indexes), and `none` (deny wildcard expressions). Default is `open`.
`ignore_unavailable` | Boolean | When `true`, OpenSearch ignores missing or closed indexes. If `false`, OpenSearch returns an error if the force merge operation encounters missing or closed indexes. Default is `false`.
`verbose` | Boolean | When `true`, gives information about Lucene's memory usage. Default is `false`.

## Response body

> Parameter | Type | Description 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameter | Data type | Description 
```

 :--- | :--- | :--- 
`<segment>` | String | The name of the segment, such as `_segment`. The name is generated during the creation of the segment and used to create internal file names in the shard directory. 
`generation` | Integer | The generation number, such as `0`. OpenSearch increments this generation number for each segment written. OpenSearch then uses this number to derive the segment name. 

> `num_docs` | Integer | The number of documents as reported by Lucene. This excludes deleted documents and counts any nested documents separately from their parents. It also excludes documents which were indexed recently and do not yet belong to a segment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`num_docs` | Integer | The number of documents as reported by Lucene. This excludes deleted documents and counts any nested documents separately from their parents. It also excludes documents that were indexed recently and do not yet belong to a segment. 
```

> `deleted_docs` | Integer | The number of deleted documents as reported by Lucene, which may be higher or lower than the number of delete operations you have performed. This number excludes deletes that were performed recently and do not yet belong to a segment. Deleted documents are cleaned up by the automatic merge process if it makes sense to do so. Also, Elasticsearch creates extra deleted documents to internally track the recent history of operations on a shard. 

Reviewer 2: > Also, Elasticsearch creates extra deleted documents to internally track the recent history of operations on a shard.

Should we use 'OpenSearch' ?

`size_in_bytes` | Integer | Disk space used by the segment, such as `50kb`. 

> `memory_in_bytes` | Integer | The number of bytes of segment data stored in memory for efficient search, such as 1264. A value of `-1` indicates OpenSearch was unable to compute this number. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`memory_in_bytes` | Integer | The amount of segment data, measured in bytes, that is kept in memory to facilitate efficient search operations, such as `1264`. A value of `-1` indicates that OpenSearch was unable to compute this number. 
```

> `committed` | Boolean | When `true`, the segments is synced to disk. Segments that are synced can survive a hard reboot. If false, the data from uncommitted segments is also stored in the transaction log so that OpenSearch is able to replay changes on the next start. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`committed` | Boolean | When `true`, the segments are synced to disk. Segments that are synced to disk can survive a hard reboot. If `false`, the data from uncommitted segments is also stored in the transaction log so that OpenSearch can replay the changes on the next start. 
```

> `committed` | Boolean | When `true`, the segments is synced to disk. Segments that are synced can survive a hard reboot. If false, the data from uncommitted segments is also stored in the transaction log so that Elasticsearch is able to replay changes on the next start. 

Reviewer 2: Same as above

> `search` | Boolean | When `true`, the segment is searchable. If false, the segment has most likely been written to disk but needs a refresh to be searchable. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`search` | Boolean | When `true`, the segment is searchable. If false, the segment has most likely been written to disk but needs a refresh to be searchable. 
```
synced to disk?

Author: There's a difference between written and synced. Alt suggestion:

```suggestion
`search` | Boolean | When `true`, the segment is searchable. If false, the segment will likely be written to disk and will need a refresh to be searchable.

`version` | String | The version of Lucene used to write the segment. 

> `compound` | Boolean | When `true`, Lucene merged all files from the segment into a single file to save file descriptors. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`compound` | Boolean | When `true`, Lucene merged all of the files from the segment into a single file to save the file descriptors. 
```
and saves the file descriptors?

> `attributes` | Object | Shows whether high compression was enabled. 

Reviewer 2: We can reword this a bit:

This shows the custom attributes stored within a segment. e.g. shows the compression mode for the segment if enabled

## Query parameters

The Segments API supports the following optional query parameters:

Parameter | Data type | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
`allow_no_indices` | Boolean | Whether to ignore wildcards that don’t match any indexes. Default is `true`.
`allow_partial_search_results` | Boolean | Whether to return partial results if the request runs into an error or times out. Default is `true`.
`expand_wildcards` | String | Specifies the type of index that wildcard expressions can match. Supports comma-separated values. Valid values are `all` (match any index), `open` (match open, non-hidden indexes), `closed` (match closed, non-hidden indexes), `hidden` (match hidden indexes), and `none` (deny wildcard expressions). Default is `open`.
`ignore_unavailable` | Boolean | When `true`, OpenSearch ignores missing or closed indexes. If `false`, OpenSearch returns an error if the force merge operation encounters missing or closed indexes. Default is `false`.
`verbose` | Boolean | When `true`, gives information about Lucene's memory usage. Default is `false`.

> ## Response body

Author: ```suggestion
## Response body fields
```

Parameter | Data type | Description 
 :--- | :--- | :--- 
`<segment>` | String | The name of the segment, such as `_segment`. The name is generated during the creation of the segment and used to create internal file names in the shard directory. 
`generation` | Integer | The generation number, such as `0`. OpenSearch increments this generation number for each segment written. OpenSearch then uses this number to derive the segment name. 

> `num_docs` | Integer | The number of documents as reported by Lucene. This excludes deleted documents and counts any nested documents separately from their parents. It also excludes documents that were indexed recently and do not yet belong to a segment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`num_docs` | Integer | The number of documents as reported by Lucene. It counts nested documents separately from their parents, and excludes deleted documents and the documents that were indexed recently and do not yet belong to a segment. 
```

`size_in_bytes` | Integer | Disk space used by the segment, such as `50kb`. 
`memory_in_bytes` | Integer | The amount of segment data, measured in bytes, that is kept in memory to facilitate efficient search operations, such as `1264`. A value of `-1` indicates that OpenSearch was unable to compute this number. 
`committed` | Boolean | When `true`, the segments are synced to disk. Segments that are synced to disk can survive a hard reboot. If `false`, the data from uncommitted segments is also stored in the transaction log so that OpenSearch can replay the changes on the next start. 
`search` | Boolean | When `true`, the segment is searchable. Otherwise, the segment will likely be written to disk. Any segments written to disk must be refreshed to be searchable.
`version` | String | The version of Lucene used to write the segment. 
`compound` | Boolean | When `true`, Lucene merged all of the files from the segment into a single file to save any file descriptions.
`attributes` | Object | Shows whether high compression was enabled. 

## Example requests

> The following example requests show how the Segment API works.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example requests show you how to use the Segment API.
```

### Specific data stream or index

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```json
```

GET /index1/_segments
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Several data streams and indexes

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```json
```

GET /index1,index2/_segments
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### All data streams and indexes in a cluster

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```json
```
